International and domestic travel can bring us to security and safety environments
that are different from our home cities.
Many factors determine your individual risk-profile,
including race, religion, and ethnicity.
Skin colour can be a factor that changes each person's experience of travelling.
For example, in some regions, persons of colour may attract negative attention
or face discrimination and hostility in day-to-day activities.
In other regions, those with white skin or particular hair colours
may attract unwanted, and disruptive attention.
Often this attention is simple curiosity or interest and,
while it may be uncomfortable, is not likely to be a threat.
However, trust your instinct; if the attention feels hostile or aggressive,
find a safe place to ask for help.
Local law enforcement is not the only option,
and in some places they might ignore your plight.
Hotels, restaurants, banks and offices are often safe spaces
where you can seek help, or make a phone-call.
Sometimes, when making reservations,
a traveller's name may be unfairly discriminated against,
if it suggests a particular ethnicity or religion.
Including your title and the company's name on your booking has been shown to help.
Persons of colour are more likely to have their credentials checked by security,
when entering hotels or office spaces.
Having a hard copy of your itinerary, or a business card,
can help to speed up the process.
Particular dress or appearance can even lead to extra checks or delays,
in places where security is especially strict.
In some locations, persons of certain races, religions or ethnicities,
may be subject to additional security checks in places like airports.
Extra time may be needed to allow for screening and clear the security areas.
Additionally, not all regions are tolerant of all religions or faiths,
and can increase the risk of unwanted attention in day-to-day life.
Doing some extra research on safe and welcoming spaces
can help your trip go more smoothly.
Travelling is usually an exciting and rewarding experience,
but include researching specific information about
racial, religious, or ethnic discrimination before you travel.
If you have any questions or concerns,
speak to your manager, HR, or your diversity network.